## Blog - Archived Post

Post: External Retina Monitors? - Date: 2016-01-22

Anyone who has used a Retina display knows how awesome they are. There's just no denying the fact that you're looking at one of the best displays on the market. But what happens when the 15" display on your MacBook Pro isn't big enough anymore? You plug it into an external monitor, right? The problem with this idea is that your average monitor isn't going to cut it anymore. Not now. Not since you've let your eyes become accustom to that brilliant Retina screen with pixels so small you can't even see them!

My 2013 15" MacBook Pro has a Retina display with a default resolution of 2880x1800. That's pretty darn high for such a small display. So, why, when I boot my Mac, does it automatically default to a meager resolution of 1440x900? It's not running at 2880x1800 but it still looks awesome! What's that all about? That, my friends, is what we call HiDPI mode and it's the secret sauce behind Apple's beautiful Retina displays. HiDPI mode works by doubling the resolution of every onscreen element. Think of the user interface, buttons, menus, etc. This little trick makes everything (the UI)  on screen look sharper on super high resolution displays. This is also, unfortunately, why sub 2K resolution monitors always look horrible when plugged into a Retina capable Mac.

So, what can you do about this? The solution is surprisingly simple. All you need to do is buy a good 4K monitor with a default resolution of 3840x2160 and then run your new display in HiDPI mode. Enabling HiDPI on a 4K screen will double the UI elements and render them onscreen at a resolution of 1920x1080. If done properly, you will now have a Retina quality external monitor that looks just as sharp and clear as Apple's built-in screen! Is that really all you need to do? Well, no, not really. In addition to the 4K monitor you will also need an application capable of enabling HiDPI mode and a Mini DisplayPort to DisplayPort cable that is Thunderbolt port compatible. You can find these cables on [Amazon](http://amzn.to/1PtbPF6) for $9.99 and the HiDPI mode apps can be found on the Apple App Store. 

The brand of the monitor you get really isn't that important. All that matters is that it has an IPS display, runs at a resolution of 3840x2160, has a DisplayPort 1.2 port, and has a 60 Hz refresh rate. Another thing you might want to consider is the size of the monitor you're buying. A 24" 4K monitor will look sharper and therefore better than a 27" monitor. However, the UI elements will be also be smaller on the 24". It's a trade off that you'll need to think about. Do you want a smaller display that has a slightly better screen or a larger display that looks just as great as your normal Retina display? Through trial and error I've found that I prefer the larger 27" form factor. To me it just seems easier on the eyes. I recommend you take a look at the 27" [Dell P2715Q](http://amzn.to/1PnUJi4), the 27" [BenQ BL2711U] (http://amzn.to/1PnX7We), and the 27" [NEC EA275UHD-BK-SV](http://amzn.to/1Nqgare). All three are awesome 4K monitors and are well worth the steep asking prices. Want a smaller 24" monitor? No problem. Dell and BenQ offer smaller 24" versions of these same monitors.

I hope this answers any questions you had about Retina displays and external monitors. If not, please let me know and I'll do my best to follow up and help you out.  


